Step 2. Find initial basic feasible solution In the simplex method a start is made with a feasible solution, which we shall get by assuming that the profit earned is zero. This will be so when decision variables y, and x2 are each equal to zero. These variables are called non-basic variables. Substituting *I = *2 - 0 in equations (2.20) yields sp 450, 52 = 600, which is called the initial basic feasible solution. Note that 7. - 0 for this solution. Variables sp and sy are called basic variables and they form the basis. In physical terms, it means neither of the two products are produced, the entire ume available for machines M, and M, is unused and since nothing is being done, the profit camed is zero. The problem in standard form and the solution obtained above are now expressed in the form of a table, called the simplex table (or tableau) 2.20. TABLE 2.20 Contribution unit c,Basis Cn 0 0(Basic variables) SI S2 3 0 n  Body matrix *2 Identity matrix SI -2 0 2 0 INb 450 600 Interpretation of the data in the above table is given below. Other simplex tables will have similar interpretations. (1) The first row indicates the coefficients c, of the variables in the objective function equation (2.19). These coefficients remain unchanged in the subsequent tables. They represent the profit/cost per unit to the objective function of each of the variables. The second row indicates the variables in the problem for which c, coefficients have already been written. (in) The first column (Cy-column) represents the coefficients of the current basic variables in the objective function. The second column is the basis column (or product mix column). li represents the basic variables of the current solution. The basic variables are the slack variables s, and sz. (li) The body matrix (also called coefficient matrix) under non-basic variables * and x2 represents their coefficients a, in the constraints (2.20). These coefficients represent the amount of resource required to a make a unit of the product. For example, coefficients I under rI-column and I under r2-column in s-row represent that time required on machine M, to make a unit of product A and B is one minute each. Likewise, to make a unit of product A requires one minute on machine M, and 2 minutes on machine M2. These coefficients may be positive, zero or negative in a problem. They are called exchange coefficients or substitution rates (iv) The identity matrix represents the coefficients of slack variables in the constraints (2.20). Note that every simplex table will have identity matrix under the basic variables. The identity matrix is also called unit matrix or hasis matrix. It is always a square matrix and its size is determined by the number of constraints.